[Applause]
TV show - his latest is another great
one he is behind the camera with the
story of one of the most compelling
prison breaks of all time
it's called escape at Dannemora maybe we
should go back and let's steal car we
gotta go west into the mountains they're
not gonna find us there we lay low for a
few weeks let everything calm down and
when we get to Route 11 then we get a
car then we go wherever the we want
escape it Dannemora airs Sunday nights
on Showtime please
[Music]
[Applause]
boy that show I've been watching the
show it's fantastic for what a couple of
Golden Globes I believe SAG Award or
Patricia yeah for a SAG Award and I
pretty much never Awards right I mean
that reason we do it that's why we do
this yes you know I never have been
associated with anything really that's
got nominated for anything for a long
interesting yeah yeah it's been a long
time but I'm really you know happy for
the people who worked on the show we
worked really hard on it and you know
we're all really proud of I remember
this story when it was in the news and I
remember thinking like this is a great
story but you were smart enough to go
there's a great story I should make
something out of it yes I mean it was
compelling and and you know just
fascinating to me that these two guys
could could break out of a prison in
2015 in this day and age with all the
technology in the world and actually saw
their way out of their cells and seduced
this woman who worked in the tailor shop
of the prison where they also do
uniforms for prisoners yeah and you know
somehow convinced her to help them
escape and then hopefully all go off to
Mexico together and you somehow convince
the prison to let you shoot the show
there which yeah I was in charge of the
prison I don't think I would I don't
know I don't know if I'd want to show
about our biggest mistake yes you know
yes they they were kind enough to let us
film there right here yeah we got a
little help from the governor Governor
Cuomo nice and we actually formed some
really great relationships with the
people who work there because I think by
opening it up to us we were able to tell
the story in a more full way right a
more realistic way and really show all
sides of what was going on there cuz
it's a complicated you know ecosystem
there right well sure it's prison yeah
yeah it's I mean very prison life in
prison go and check out a prison right I
think it really I've been to a prison
yeah yeah and it makes you think twice
about everything have you have you
performed in a prison but well if you
want to call it that yeah
I did I was there on show business yes
yeah so is there a protocol you have to
go like are you cavity search each other
no no well when when we went to shoot at
Clinton we had to get you know yeah we
had could go through a metal detector we
had to you know take ID pictures and and
you know basically they trusted that we
were they didn't cavity searches no boy
agent if they did lock Hillary up and
sent her to Clinton that would be
something wouldn't it sorry anyway it
was pretty wild I mean we got to shoot
on the yard the north yard of this
prison which has been there for about
150 years so it's just an incredible
space it's overlooking the Adirondacks
yeah and we actually there are these
courts that the prisoners have they get
they can sign up for and it can hang out
and have sort of rec time outside and we
actually found a ship that was buried in
one of the courts really yeah well one
of our art directors found it and and
then he had to tell the the CEO the
corrections officer and then the person
who was in that court got in trouble Wow
I don't know what happened to him but
probably something nice he's probably
stabbed yeah yeah Ron that's crazy and
now the part or then I don't want to I
guess we can't really give her away cuz
it's a news story but they escaped
through like a drink halfway into the
series now but basically they cut their
way out of the backs of their cells with
these hacksaw blades that Tilly brought
to them that she put in hamburger meat
that she delivered through a guard and
and then they cut their way through the
backs of the cells went down the catwalk
found their way to the outer wall the
prison found a steam pipe there and they
realized that the steam pipe had shut
off for the summer and they could cut
their way into the steam pipe go about
seven feet to the other side of the wall
that the steam pipe went through cut
their way out and then go out a manhole
cover I wonder why I always find myself
rooting for the murderers to get out of
prison you know you know when you're
when you're watching a prison escape
story it's hard not to be sort of
rooting for the people who are trying to
escape as well think about how do you do
it it's kind of fascinating how they did
it but they were you know definitely
felons and they did bad things
heavier however your kids know my
daughter is 16 and a half almost 17 and
my son is 13 have they seen daddy's
prison show
yeah I took my daughter to the premier
of daddies we did oh and I forgot I
didn't I mean I sort of put it out of my
mind that the first scene like is
there's there's illicit sex happening in
a prison back room yeah
and it's pretty graphic and I'd sat next
to my 16 and a half year old and my
peripheral vision was not working at the
time I just turned it off did she like
it no I didn't mean it that way
was your son jealous that he got that
she got to go see this she she
instagrammed it so I think that name oh
that's good yeah if they Instagram it
that's my son didn't go but I did a sort
of a make up his teacher his English
teacher asked me to come speak to his
English class about this I actually know
what it was about he just said would you
come and talk to the kids I was like
sure I'll come I'd be happy to and then
he sent me an email
his name is Larry he's a really really
yeah they called the teachers by their
first names it's progressive school even
if it's Larry yeah yeah and then he said
all right well here's the deal you're
gonna show up at 8 a.m. you'll be there
till about 3:00 p.m. we'll be a lunch
break I just thought I was talking to my
son's English class he's like no you're
talking to all seven sections of the
English English man Wow yeah and I gotta
get to prison yeah so what's your lesson
plan do you need any support like a
PowerPoint or anything like lesson plan
I thought I was talking to the kids just
like answering questions and then he
asked for my bio he said I want to you
know I want to give the kids your bio so
they'll know who you are so then I was
like going through my bio and I'm
editing anything okay well you know like
it says hey you played vacuous male
model Derek Zoolander played sadistic
fat camp Fitness Instructor in the heavy
weight play the guy having a nervous
breakdown a brad stand like this is
gonna go to my seventh-grade son's you
know friends yeah and then my son is
also saying like he doesn't even want me
to pretend like I know him I don't know
him no boy credible embarrassed right
so it was really stressful I ended up
showing a clip of Night at the Museum
where I having a scene with the till 100
you want
talk about the power of words that's
smart yeah and so we're just doing kind
of gibberish with each other and each
class would come in I you know sort of
gauge how much they how good an audience
they were oh really
yeah they liked it or not who was the
best well it got better as the day went
along uh-huh but I realized I was
judging these kids on whether or not
they thought I was funny you know the
end of the day they wrote me thank-you
notes which was really nice nice yeah
and then they asked me a lot of
questions to just about whether they
want to know from you well they want to
know if I knew other famous people right
did I know Drake Drake yes that's all
they care about these kids and do you
know Drake I have sat next to Drake at a
basketball game awesome yeah I think
that count scored some points there Ben
Stiller's here his show is called escape
at Dannemora we'll be right back after
this hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel an evil wizard
has trapped me inside this YouTube video
click subscribe to help me escape